---
layout: post
title: WEEK ONE 
---

It's official - my last class as an undergrad has started and it's taking no prisoners. One thing that's been made crystal clear already is that it's either you get with the program or you're going to be left to drown in self-pity....and an F. This class differs from the other CS classes in that Professor Downing forces you to actively participate and he forces you to learn through others. Case in point: my phone and e-mail was absolutely flooded this week by constant notifications from Piazza and from Travis CI. There's no way to escape the realities of this class; there's no way to procrasintate. What I particularly like so far is that because of Professor Downing's ways of teaching, everyone feels free to ask even the most trivial of questions. And you know when someone says that no question is stupid? Well, that's become a reality in this class. There. Is. Zero. Shame.

Moving on, Project 1 is based on the Collatz Conjecture and I find it interesting as a math major. In fact, I did a bit of research on it from the mathematical standpoint. What's fascinating is that it's seemingly such an easy problem that it's actually nearly impossible.Thinking about the problem backwards even before writing a single line of code before Monday's lecture when Professor Downing discussed caches helped me to come up with some ideas during class. 

As far as programming is concerned, I also like that we are encouraged to write the simplest version of working code and then building on top of that. We're encouraged too often as students to write whatever we can and to spend hours upon hours debugging something until we end up with a program that works but one that we don't quite know why it runs. 

Tip of the week: Use the applications that Github offers such as Github for Mac and Github for Windows. It takes away so much of the hassle and it will allow you time to adjust to git in general. I used to just use the terminal and git when I first started using Github some time ago but honestly, it's easier and less time consuming to use the apps. Save yourself the hassle and use what's already there for you, especially if you're new to Github/git. 
