---
layout: post
title: WEEK TWO
---

##Obsessive Compulsive.
##Perfectionist.
##Meticulous.
##Nit-picker.

You name it and I've been called it. 

To sugarcoat it, I consider myself a very detailed oriented person and turning in projects in this class leaves me with knots in my stomach. I'm not talking about the butterflies you get on a first date or the jitters you get right before presenting your app to potential investors. Nope, as I go through the daunting list of requirements, it feels like Peeves (stop here if you don't get the obvious Harry Potter reference and get yourself out from under the rock where you've been living) is prodding, squeezing and tying up my intestines for his own twisted fun. Professor Downing mentioned at least 5 times on Monday's lecture that, "it hasn't been the case that not more than one person got a zero on the first project",...or something just as convoluted as that. 

Great. Just great. 

And you know that sudden feeling of clarity and happiness you get after turning in a programming assignment; the addicting emotional high that gives you just enough drive to make it through the next one? You get none of that here. After filling out the Google form I laid in my bed, rolling around, trying to enjoy an episode of "Orange is the new black" but to no avail. What if I had missed a single character in the SHA upon submission? What if I had missed some sort of edge case? Was my lazy cache implementation good enough with an estimated time of 0.24 or should I have gone ahead and used my original metacache idea? The list goes on. At some point, though, you just have to trust yourself enough to LET IT GO. The <del>cold</del> wait for grades never bothered me anyway. 

This week the lecture material prepped us for project 2 (Netflix) which is designed to make us methodically come up with a way to predict users' movie ratings based on a subset of data that's given to us. We basically went over some operators and iteration the entire week. What confuses me the most is the language itself and I don't mean Python. Iteration, iterable, and iterator - it's like I'm back in grade school learning English for the first time and trying to differentiate between present (as in a gift), present (current time), and present (a person in a certain place). There are quite a number of foreigners in this class from what I've noticed so this leads me to the second tip of the week, in which I will leave definitions of the three terms in hopes that it will also help someone else. 

####**TIP OF THE WEEK:**
(I have two for this week)
 
__1) Markdown files:__

Check out this [cheatsheat](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet) for help on reformatting your weekly posts. You can use html for markdown files but it's nice to know this stuff too. I found it especially useful for the code parts.  Note that the tildes don't work for strikethroughs so you have to use `<dev></dev>` tags and the html way doesn't work for this for some reason. 

__2) Definitions:__

* __Iteration:__
A general term for taking each item of something, one after another. Any time you use a loop, explicit or implicit, to go over a group of items, that is iteration. 

In Python, iterable and iterator have specific meanings.

* __Iterable:__
Anything that can be looped over; an object that has an `__iter__` method which returns an iterator, or which defines a `__getitem__` method that can take sequential indexes starting from zero (and raises an IndexError when the indexes are no longer valid). This means that an iterable is an object that you can get an iterator from.

* __Iterator:__
An object with a next (Python 2) or `__next__` (Python 3) method; An object with state that remembers where it is during iteration.

[@Source](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/9884132/what-exactly-are-pythons-iterator-iterable-and-iteration-protocols)
